Hello and welcome to the theory lecture behind the select query so like worry is the most commonly used
Querrey in the school and this is due to the fact that if we ever want to retrieve any information from
a database the queries that we use must contain select and from clauses.
So basically anything you want to do with tables and then altering them or creating new ones has to
be dealt with select statements and even when you alter some data or change some columns arose or create
something absolutely new you would most certainly use a Select than from statement just to make sure
you input all the data correctly or that the table is displaying the correct results.
So the mandatory elements of select query are the select list specifies what columns or attributes should
be in the result table and the FROM clause specifies table or tables to be used to determine the results.
So you can just leave this query blank statements like you always have to say what you select and where
you selected from.
Also just a reminder as you can also be pronounced the sequel.
That was the original name of the language.
The had to change it later due to trademarks.
So if you ever hear me or anybody else say Eskew well or a sequel don't worry it's the same thing we're
still talking about structured query language and also another thing as you can see here select and
from original capital letters.
And that's the way I like to keep it even though in most software today it's case insensitive.
So you can write functions in small or big letters.
It doesn't matter.
But I just like to keep it this way in case you ever get to work with common line.
Or it can cause some troubles if you write functions in low letters.
So that's just the thing I like to do.
But in most software today doesn't matter.
Now let's get to the syntax of select query.
So when using select statement we can't specify what exact elements we want to be selected separated
by a comma.
So if we want to display column want to call them to in Column 6 all we have to do is we have to write
select and then the names of these columns separated by a comma.
And then what table want to slag them from.
Now if we have a table that consists of a lot of different columns for example in this section we'll
be working with a table that consists more than 15 columns.
It's going to be very frustrating and time consuming to write every column name every single time we
want to display all of the data and you can also make a lot of mistakes in those column names which
will be very time consuming again.
So in order to display everything from a table what you can use is select all like Star Command.
So again this is behind us you just write select start from and then table.
So this pretty much it for the select query.
It's a very fundamental very basic worry.
It has some variations some added difficulty to it.
For example you can use Select Distinct or if you will specify exactly what data you want to use with
where clauses.
If like having in conditions you can really see the potential power of select statement.
For now we just want to focus on very simple very basic uses of select statements because it's very
important that in this section you learn the syntax of us.
Q Well get used to the interface and understand the logic behind different queries.
So I hope you enjoy this lecture and I'll see in the next one.